# Framework for implementing NDEAR-Registries

### **Framework for implementing NDEAR-Registries** <a href="#o6b3qmwk3g30" id="o6b3qmwk3g30"></a>

### Implementing a Registry system is complex since it involves addressing various aspects across policy, administrative & operational implementation, user behavior and technology. This needs a seamless approach involving key stakeholders and use of a framework to guide better decisions and drive the right actions while mitigating any anticipated risks. The PPP-R framework (Policy, Precedence, Principles - Risks framework) enables this and has precedence of being used in Mission KarmaYogi by the Government of India. This document highlights how the PPP-R framework can be used while implementing NDEAR Registries. <a href="#komjdoahyysx" id="komjdoahyysx"></a>

### **Context** <a href="#id-8bakkmrle8az" id="id-8bakkmrle8az"></a>

As part of the Digital India initiative, the Government of India has made significant progress in increasing the penetration of digital transactions and ensuring inclusive development across domains. The learnings from the current digital initiatives clearly reflect that the success of these initiatives critically depend on enabling purpose-driven Digital Identities using federated Electronic Registries. Some of these learnings have also resulted in the formulation of relevant policies and blueprints giving clear guidelines and mandates to be followed by digitization initiatives across domains.

The Government of India and the Education ministry have recognized the importance of digitization and adoption of technology in education for inclusive development as reflected in NEP 2020.

In that context, as we embark on the initiative to enable a benefit-led lifelong (KG to PG & skilling) registry system and unified view for students, teachers and institutions across the country, it becomes critical to leverage learnings from similar government initiatives and adopt relevant government policies to ensure the success of the initiative.

Given Electronic Registries will involve data and credentials which are sensitive and personal in nature, it becomes critical that they are guarded well and are designed for meeting specific purposes and needs of the target users. The compliance and adoption of policies and learnings will help in that regard and help minimize unforeseen legal complications in the future.

The following points from relevant policies need to be highlighted:

* The [National Digital Education Architecture](https://www.ndear.gov.in/policies-and-standards.html) issued by the Ministry of Education recommends that “_Users must have appropriate access, control and visibility to their personal data._” Additionally, one of the architectural principles states that “_Granular consent shall be required for data sharing, following the principle of purpose limitation. Parental consent shall be adopted for minors. Access to any personal data (data containing PII) enabled through NDEAR services will only be possible via electronic consents._” The report stresses on the need for ‘unifying national digital infrastructure’ that is federated and interoperable.
* The [InDEA 2.0 report from MeitY](https://www.meity.gov.in/writereaddata/files/InDEA%202\_0%20Report%20Draft%20V6%2024%20Jan%2022\_Rev.pdf), Chapter 4 lays out the definitions for registries, as well as recommends principles and architecture for building of electronic registries. It calls out the need for ministries and states to create purpose driven federated registries; storing attested facts and credentials about people and entities; allowing individuals and entities to avail various services with registries electronically validating their claims via Open APIs.
* The [Digital Personal Data Protection Bill, 2022](https://www.meity.gov.in/writereaddata/files/The%20Digital%20Personal%20Data%20Protection%20Bill%2C%202022.pdf) clearly lays out the provisions and rules including user consent, under which personal data may be collected, processed and used by entities. It emphasizes on providing the processing of digital personal data in a manner that recognizes both the right of individuals to protect their personal data and the need to process personal data for lawful purposes, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

### **Framework for Designing and Implementing Purpose-driven Registry System** <a href="#b6r47mubzjcr" id="b6r47mubzjcr"></a>

We recommend using the PPP-R (Policy-Precedence-Principles-Risk) framework for designing and implementing purpose-driven electronic registry systems.

The PPP-R framework was developed and used in the operationalisation of the iGOT platform, helping to ensure that the work being done is in full compliance with the vision, goal and objectives of the program. It will help to apply learnings from similar government initiatives and ensure the compliance and adoption of relevant policies in a structured way.

The PPP-R framework involves application of first principles to leverage existing policies and learnings from relevant initiatives and define guiding Principles for the initiative; which in turn can be applied to systematically arrive at structured conclusions for design and implementation decisions.

Following this framework to develop programs, new initiatives -

* are able to **leverage** any work that has already been done,
* are **compliant** with existing government policies,
* are in line with other programs rolled out earlier that have set a **precedent**
* are able to arrive at concrete, compliant **principles** for program roll-out, and
* can develop a comprehensive strategy to assess and **mitigate risks** based on informed decisions taken by the required authorities.

#### PPP-R framework for purpose-driven registry system <a href="#qy4i18g1g6oo" id="qy4i18g1g6oo"></a>

The section below defines the PPP-R framework for the NDEAR initiative to enable a benefit-led lifelong (KG to PG & skilling) registry system and unified view for students, teachers and institutions. The framework can be used to arrive at structured conclusions for design and implementation decisions.

**Policy:**

The following policies have been looked at, in context of enabling purpose-driven Digital Identities for education and skilling:

1. The NDEAR [report](https://www.ndear.gov.in/policies-and-standards.html) talks about the need for student, teacher and institute federated linked electronic registries that are consent driven, live, reusable and trustworthy - decreasing cost of validation; made interoperable via common standards and APIs
2. MeitY’s InDEA 2.0 committee [report](https://www.meity.gov.in/writereaddata/files/InDEA%202\_0%20Report%20Draft%20V6%2024%20Jan%2022\_Rev.pdf) lays out the definitions for registries, credentialing; best practices, architecture principles and clear recommendations for implementation. It calls out the need to create purpose driven interlinked federated registries using existing IDs; storing attested facts and credentials about people and entities; allowing individuals and entities to avail various services with registries electronically validating their claims via Open APIs. It recognizes enabling federated registries as the core building block for ensuring inclusive development as part of digitization effort in any domain. ​​Registries are not mere database, it needs careful user-centric design giving users the control while authorities/systems can attest & validate data attributes. Ability to use an existing registry data (under appropriate policy with the consent of the user) is critical to eliminate today’s repeated data collection & validation process that is costly, error prone, and most importantly inconvenient to citizens. In every registry it is necessary that the subjects in that registry are identified in a unique & trusted fashion.
3. The NDEAR student registry committee deliberations, and Working Group notes - delving on the initial design and roll out strategy of Student digital IDs and registries in alignment with NDEAR report
4. The [Digital Personal Data Protection Bill, 2022](https://www.meity.gov.in/writereaddata/files/The%20Digital%20Personal%20Data%20Protection%20Bill%2C%202022.pdf) recognizes the importance of user consent in the context of data, the right of individuals to protect their personal data, and the need to process personal data for lawful purposes.

**Precedents :**

1. Large scale electronic registries including Vahan for vehicles, Aadhaar for residents and PAN for taxpayers
2. The National Health Authority, as part of its Unified Health Interface project intends to create an open interoperable platform connecting digital health solutions. Systems being built as part of this effort include registries of doctors and health facilities, electronic health record, ABHA account etc.

**Principles: (that are key in order to be able to deliver benefits)**

1. **Purpose driven, Federated design**: it is important to create a “federated set of registries”, each of which is meant for a “specific purpose” rather than a universal, all inclusive registry. Given the federated nature of service delivery and Government systems, it is essential that each registry be maintained in an autonomous way with its own workflows, purposes and rules of participation. These registries may get interlinked via registry IDs depending on the policies that allow such linking. Interlinked registries may be required to provide an unified view of benefits delivery.
2. **Digital identifier as key to Registry, Use existing IDs**: All such registries should have a digital identifier to uniquely identify a record. When registering, people must be given an option to use their existing digital IDs such as Aadhaar, mobile, etc as appropriately to fit the purpose of that registry and also allow people to control, update, manage their record using the common IDs such as Aadhaar, mobile, etc.
3. **Purpose driven Uniqueness**: When global state-controlled uniqueness is necessary, allow users to link their Aadhaar or other Aadhaar linked or Aadhaar derived or Aadhaar based digital IDs to achieve it. If not (if it is user-controlled uniqueness), then allow common identifiers such as mobile numbers or other acceptable Digital IDs to be used and still allow users to voluntarily use their Aadhaar. This allows minimizing the need to remember and use many IDs by the citizens and provides convenience of managing their account using either Aadhaar or mobile or other acceptable digital IDs.
4. **Trustability**: Complexity is an inherent characteristic of large-scale ecosystems, and solutions cannot be trusted and sustained if the authenticity of the authorship and validity of credentials can be repudiated. Registries should support self declaration as well as attestation of data as a means to ensure non-repudiation of credentials and facts as an embedded feature using user authentication and digital signatures. Credentials should, by design, ensure verifiability, portability, permanence and inclusivity, while incorporating consent based and self describing properties.
5. **Empowerment**: Empowering data owners by giving them the ability to view, initiate correction and control how their information is accessed and used, by giving them the ability to give and withdraw consent at the attribute level (consent-based architecture). InDEA 2.0 is also focussed on empowering individuals and entities - it recommends bringing together identities, assets and transactions - referencing verifiable credentials, open networks and protocols to help systems achieve user benefits. Credentials (various certificates in digitally verifiable form) enable people and entities to make claims about them (e.g., claims about academic degree or work experience) for availing services and the service provider having the ability to verify those claims in a paperless and trusted manner. As per InDEA 2.0, implementers must necessarily be cognizant of all the three aspects of Digital Empowerment and therefore not only implement federated digital IDs, but also address the aspects of data & credential, and when possible facilitate and enable an open interoperable network within their domain. Any registry provider/custodian must design the registry with the subject (person) in the center and ensure convenience, inclusion, data empowerment, and meaningful choice for them to control and manage their own record within the registry.
6. **Security**: Ensuring that data is exchanged in a secured manner with well defined privacy rules and in alignment with access allowed by data owner and issuer - application of consent mechanisms within systems to ensure data is used only with the knowledge and consent of the owner is also specifically called out both in the InDEA 2.0 as well as NDEAR committee reports.
7. **Universal Access and Interoperability**: Enable secure digital access and interoperable communication across systems using secure APIs to ensure seamless integration across diverse systems - allowing them to communicate in a trusted fashion.
8. **Use case centric design** - Registry design needs to be user-centric, rooted in use cases that will ensure active usage of the Registry. Likewise, registry adoption must be driven via use cases that deliver concrete value to the end user, and incentivise them to take consented control of their data.
   * **Minimal data models**: The unified data model for the Registry must be minimal, and evolved based on the needs for which the Registry is being built - it should be kept to a minimum so as to enable envisioned use-cases, and not be allowed to grow unchecked.

**Risks & Mitigation :**

* **Data Security & Data model design growing unchecked** :: The data model for the Registry should be envisioned in the context of the use-cases that it is built for. It is critical to keep the unified account data model to a minimum, and integrate existing systems via secure APIs instead of bringing all data centrally. This will also help keep data privacy concerns in check.
* **Push back to Registry usage/ integration** :: The intent should not be to make existing systems redundant, but to leverage them, and allow them to integrate with each other using Open APIs as per the NDEAR guidelines that have been laid out.
* **Registry adoption risks** :: Aiding adoption and ensuring registry usage should be driven by strong adoption strategies that involve user-centric use cases, plans and budget for adoption drives, as well as close monitoring of adoption metrics.
* **Privacy & Uniqueness of identities** :: The Supreme Court of India clearly articulated the need to have privacy as a fundamental right, while allowing Government systems to enforce the uniqueness of ID for specific usage, where it is appropriate and necessary. Government systems as well as service delivery, by nature, are federated. Chapter 4 of InDEA 2.0 covers the architecture and the recommendations for digital IDs and dwells on the need for linked, federated registries. Government systems in India must support diversity and be inclusive in nature - and incorporate design that is privacy-respecting, and allow choice for citizens to be able to use a few of their preferred IDs for various purposes, instead of attempting to burden the user with more IDs than necessary.
* **Repeated data collection** across disparate systems leads to information that is inconsistent, out-of-date and unusable. Allowing for re-use of existing data and systems, rather than having to collect/ build ground-up once again can simplify systems and processes, by eliminating the need for every system to repeatedly capture, validate and manage the data. Paperless and trusted data verification via Registries and verifiable credentials leveraging data via APIs and user consent allows for express ‘one-click onboarding’ as well as enables ecosystem innovation with trusted access to data.
* **Pushback by States, Boards, Private institutions** :: Letting existing systems to integrate as per NDEAR principles while “unifying” them using open Registry APIs into a minimal, user-controlled view (voluntarily Aadhaar linked, except when it comes to Govt. benefit purposes for which Aadhaar can be mandated)
